All right.
So in this lesson, we'll learn about the VON Directive.
As a reminder, a directive is a special command available to view.
That view will understand as it's building your HTML.
So earlier we talked about v f the else v four.
Those are all examples of directives that we can give to view and view will interpret those almost like
magic commands or magic functions that it knows how to deal with.
Right?
For example, v four to iterate or v if to conditionally render.
Well, this directive is called v on and what we can use it for is to specify an action to take on some
kind of an event.
And an event simply means something that happens such as a user interaction, like the user clicking
something or typing into something.
Any kind of interactive thing that occurs is called an event, just like an event in real life, right?
Like the event on Saturday or the event on Friday, right?
It's some kind of occurrence at some point in time.
At some point in time, the user will interact with our application, and that is an example of an event
that will occur at some point.
Right.
And so what we can use the VON Directive to do is to react to an event.
So what I want to do here is just write it out and it should hopefully make sense.
It's probably easier if I don't explain it and just show you the vision directive in action.
So right here on our button element, in our action button component, I'm going to write the directive.
Von all of you directives start with, of course the V prefix.
Then we have to actually specify on what event we want this action to occur on.
Right?
Because there's many different types of events.
The user can click, the user can type, these are can mouse over, etc..
So in order to specify the type of event, we're going to add a colon here and then write the type of
event and the type of event here with a button, of course, is going to be a click.
All right, then I'm going to provide an equal sign and some double quotes for my string.
So what we're specifying, here's when the user clicks on this button.
What do we want to execute?
What do we want to run?
And hopefully that gives you a hint, because when we talk about the idea of executing something, we're
talking about a function or a method.
So here we are able to put any one of our defined methods that we have defined in the view configuration
object down below.
So right now we have a single method defined and that is handle click.
So I'm going to write it out here.
So once again, just to reiterate, Von Click is not up to us.
That is views, specific syntax.
But what we put here in the double quotes is a name of a method that is up to us based on what we define
here in the methods object in the view configuration.
So just like we're able to use elements of the data object in our template, we showed earlier how we
can do that with the double curly braces, we're similarly able to use methods that we defined within
our HTML template, right?
In this case, we're attaching it to our VON Directive and specifying that the method will run when
the user clicks.
This element the button.
All right, so I'm going to save this and let's go to our browser and check up on it.
So I'm going to go back to my browser and now let's try clicking the sign in button and there we can
see I've been clicked has appeared and that method will run every single time we execute a click of
that.
So if I click this button a couple more times, you'll see from the console that I've been clicked is
going to render multiple times.
It's actually going to have this number to the left hand side of it.
In Chrome that indicates how many times Chrome is output the message.
Chrome doesn't want to output it multiple times because it's duplicated and the same one, but it is
actually console.log.
Yet each time we click on the button.
All right, that's all there is to cover in this lesson.
Let me go back to this code and review what we learned.
This is an example of a directive.
It's called the Vision Directive.
We specify what to do or what action to take.
Whenever the user does some kind of event, we specify which event we want to react to, in this case,
the click.
And then in order to specify what logic or piece of kind of business logic should run, when the click
happens, we provide the name of a method in our view configuration object.
Notice here that we are not invoking handle click.
So you do not want to do this.
All right.
You just specify the name of the method that you want view to run for you.
Whenever the user whenever the user clicks on this button.
And keep in mind we've put this logic right now in our action button component, which means anywhere
we render an action button component throughout the app, this logic will hold.
So if we were to render an action button in another component, this logic lives in here in the method
defined in action button.
So any click on any one of those buttons belonging to an action button component would trigger this
method to run, right?
It's not limited to one action button.
It is in every single action button that we render.
We have encoded this logic because we've made it a component method.
All right.
So we're seeing this little bit of.
Yes.
Lint warnings right here.
And we're going to show you how to fix that in the very next lesson.